{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16600\viewh16580\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Katrina Dittman\
01/06/2015\
SDI\
Problem Solving\
\
1) Define the problem\
	\
a) Do this in your own words.\
\
The problem is that there is a man on a riverbank with one boat. He has a bag of bird seed, a cat and a parrot. The man can only carry himself and one other item with him in the boat. He needs to get himself, the bag of bird seed, the cat and a parrot over to the other side without leaving the wrong items together on the river bank. \
\
b) What insight can you offer	into the problem that is	not immediately visible from the word problem alone?\
Think about which of the items would not eat one of the other items and then think about what would also not get eaten by another item. \
\
c) What is the overall goal?\
\
The overall goal is for the man to get himself and all 3 of the items to the other side of the riverbank in a boat without leaving 2 wrong items by themselves. \
\
2) Break the problem apart.\
\
a) What are the constraints?\
the man cannot carry all 3 of the items as well as himself on the same boat to cross the riverbank. He also cannot leave the cat and the parrot alone because the cat will eat the bird. Lastly, he cannot leave the bird alone with the bird seed because the parrot would eat the bird seed. \
\
b) What are the sub-goals?\
Get the bird across the riverbank.\
Get the cat across the riverbank.\
Get the bird seed across the river bank.\
Avoid leaving the wrong combination of items on one side of the riverbank.\
\
3) Identify potential solutions.\
\
a) For each	 of the sub-problems you\'92ve discussed in #2, what is	 a possible solution?\
The possible solution would be to take the bird across the riverbank first, then the cat, and then the bag of seed.\
\
\
4) Evaluate each	potential solution.\
\
a) Does each solution meet the goals?\
Yes.\
\
b) Will each solution work for ALL cases?\
Yes.\
\
5) Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it. \
\
a) Explain the solution in full.\
The solution would be for the man to put the bird in the boat and carry the bird across the river. Then the man would paddle back to the other side and pick up the cat and take the cat to the other side of the river. Then the man would go back across the riverbank once more time to pick up the bag of bird seed and then carry it and himself over to the other side of the riverbank. This would work because in this scenario the cat wouldn\'92t be able to eat the bird, the cat wouldn\'92t eat the bird seed, and the bird seed wouldn\'92t get eaten by the bird. \
\
b) Describe	 some test cases	you tried out to make sure it works.(You can include drawings and diagrams as part of your explanation as long as they are clearly communicating the	solution).\
\
I drew the scenario out on a piece of paper and then once I could visually see what the potential solution would be. Common sense was a factor in that you automatically know that if the bird is not there, the cat can\'92t eat it. You also know that a cat does not eat bird seed, so leaving the cat for second would not pose a threat to the bird seed. Lastly, if you take the bird and the cat first, there is nothing left to eat the bird seed. }